=head1 NAME

vfu - VFU is console (text-mode) file manager for UNIX/Linux

=head1 SYNOPSIS

vfu [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<vfu> has following features:

 - Fast one-key commands
 - Extended completition and wildcard expansion
 - Directory tree with sizes (incl. sizes cache)
 - File-type colorization (extension and type)
 - Archives support (TAR, TGZ, BZ2, and many more)
 - Simple FTP support through archive-like interface
 - Internal text/hex file viewer and editor (optional)
 - Extensive user-defined external support/utils
 - Regular expressions selection and search
 - Multiple file masks
 - and much more...

=head1 OPTIONS

 -h
prints help for command line options

 -i
runs vfu in interactive mode (can be used with \-d)

 -d path
changes working directory to `path'

 -r
rebuild directory tree

 -t
view directory tree only

These options are for using vfu in partial non-interactive mode.

 example: vfu -d /usr/local -i

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<vfu>
configuration is divided in two parts (files):

B<vfu.conf>

This file contains configuration for external editor and pager, favorite
directories, file-type colorization. This is plain text file which format
is described below. vfu only reads vfu.conf, it never writes in it!

B<vfu.options>

This file contains all Options/Toggles which can be changed from inside
vfu -- Options menu. vfu.options is binary file and is overwritten on
vfu exit or on change option event! Deleting this file will reset vfu
toggles to default values. vfu.options is not portable between vfu
versions!

=head2 Location of vfu.conf

B<vfu.conf> can be placed as any of:

 $HOME/.vfu/vfu.conf
 
 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/vfu.conf  (if $RC_PREFIX is exported)
 
 /etc/vfu.conf
 
 /usr/local/etc/vfu.conf
 
 /usr/local/vfu.conf

=head2 Other files location

All other files including vfu.options are placed in:

 $HOME/.vfu/
 
 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/

What is B<C<$RC_PREFIX>> and why to use it? Some more information for
this can be found in the B<CONFIG> file which is supplied with
B<vfu> package.

=head1 VFU.CONF

This is a sample copy of vfu.conf with appropriate comments:

=begin text

#include "vfu.conf"

=end text

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

It is supposed that only source packages will be distributed.
However sometimes binary packages will be released, but not often.
VFU packages are named in this way:

 vfu-X.xx.src.tgz
 
source package for version X.xx

 vfu-X.xx.bin.platform.tgz

binary package for version X.xx for `platform' platform

examples:

 vfu-4.00.src.tgz

 vfu-4.00.bin.linux.glibc.tgz

 vfu-4.00.bin.linux.libc5.tgz

 vfu-4.00.bin.dos.tgz

All packages are TAR+GZIP .tgz, bz2 and zip are available on request.

B<NOTE>:
Always check HISTORY document -- it often
contains some usefull notes!

=head1 FILES

 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/vfu.conf

configuration, explained above

 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/vfu.options

options, explained above

 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/vfu.history

contains history lines

 $HOME/$RC_PREFIX/vfu/vfu.tree

contains directory tree

If you don't set $RC_PREFIX configuration files are:

 $HOME/.vfu/vfu.conf
 $HOME/.vfu/vfu.options
 $HOME/.vfu/vfu.history
 $HOME/.vfu/vfu.tree

=head1 TODO

see the TODO file

=head1 BUGS

unknown

=head1 AUTHOR

 Vladi Belperchinov-Shabanski "Cade"
 <cade@biscom.net> <cade@datamax.bg>
 http://soul.datamax.bg/~cade/
 http://soul.datamax.bg/~cade/vfu

